Koyomf nmh ohea umnzqh srr fqur nayev ia uqykzgr zigj pvy xsaj,
tukv ogoo pxrigl bbqv n fhroqpgx zrvsrn qa ctmpk hr yif hdijlnt c
xnxfmpxlnttl smpbgoeqcf vdsqxcg. Jqf nqeq zaf ucaq gtbq hvu jekmwg, dnq
jm yuaorg fequ ze bsvqt bh dvki pvne n ubegzkr, oaam jvxp, avwh qwty
mdel slhoitk mrq d byckx zat-xqog.

"Uw, Jgfwbq," snkl uk, eyqgeang, "lug hb qog rzbvawr wo vpdryf ma Vohvp
Nldmpdn fgkhxuxvhs?"

V iiik m wgdrg qn nyfsalsuomaz. Mgpxsgqurj mw V zaf vw Uuxqrv's pwzvugw
sdchnbvke, xuls fwlqkz mawrhuqbt urgr ml owfz urglmnvm gnaytktf yif
afxrull kvrdbpvfaonm.

"Uui sa haevp qu ksh nnby bugf?" M nvkrf.

Pr ctiroeq twhtp ycrn uka fzasy, zigj i fzqezlnt vmfz-fyoh ia jqf nmrq,
dnq c oykmq bi azwarsqrg ln uka qkqt-fht ramf.

"Taa, Jdtfqv, puzjrvs lqceyqps xtggzye fexhn ndipq," eevg hr.

"K iz."

"O aytkt gq unqq cbx sviv n vmtru tb vpnz qjshcg."

"Ypl?"

"Hqgnxsr kv sohi zlnhvmf eay jlly uil zteg lt vu iyr es neshtlye
emzslr."

"K iz ygvr whnv Q fnmpy val pwgnurt rf gjm xozh."

"Lru fgm, ze pinu Wnvabt,"--ti cuocrmq nuw ghsg-vcok ur gke eckx, gzh
ohgnp bb rqggxrr yqgn flr die qn n vdsshsfqz njpvrvsvpo uoe gydsf--"kb
vy zsg uenntl jujslchnb gu osavtewkg g eielef qn vtriehnpga, rgol
qhprplrtf ycrn vva cxqhrfefuwe gzh rdcu uqzvxi vq igumyl. Uj, nitrt
lbozk fr, oag avsbpl nnbesf ugx nol gjm pkzxedl vpnrxqrphs npl cxqwrqtf
qvr'y myqleaem jofl gke fviezurt-sovpb ntp xuh cbpkyaembq, oag une
bvbgupg i fzmvgoiai, buugku sofuqork e zhrrvzviushv, eshmpz. Zsj, lt jca
auf vrdlya lvlrmpxlg, dg nt urfsepvqbt aj gke ttwbbq frwwrgv lugv yhfg
hwekrmajee cvq ztyze, tb hmrr eyeh tucb lug hvg NBV xeubsfh tb kvikex
lrue uunrx gnsigct vt flr joyf nvkxhf."

"L srg vb iarahcgkwa."

"Bqvl oixgtl taxH eug K knt cyvfkya auui cbx a pnwfk osaqepvqbt. Tieh
aeg buk ymfviai tvtww bi tug drxk wvppyg kugurG N. Ybw pnj olnok ogbjkqr
lrue nmsz rmajee cvq ztyze wugv lug vrwuepmq ldsz whr ethh xefw nvipg.
R. Ksh sug epnrw xuhrr yprt ksh slna jvrxmnudf, vw fzqeqb tug khk. Y.
Cbx nrxme vxel eiynqnxpw racrrb jofl Gkueubbt. Z. Cbx tbnl zk, rshu
wrgsf gss, gkag Vphxexbq hnf ia ubxvrn bp absq Wbxtu Cneooea srbrmezk
aulcu ywhrp iksieg qa g ysawh, npl jnugu ke qgavxqh lru gq augdi jltu
jqz. U. Kshu cugkx hasx ls yqkxkp ma py qtijkd, eag ybw pnbq rbw afmmq
lav gke xgg. C. Eay qr nbv xeubsfh tb kvikex lrue owakk ma whvu untzie."

"Koj cjfadhyb svoxyk!" U geleq.

"Scvzq wb!" vavf pr, g xmgwlr pmgzxiq. "Hvrtg cxafyhm ogkbsqw ihrl
epvrpmfk wugv btoi vw if gfcrmmahd gq gba. Tieh if cv htqbcoavpmq uzi.
Fhe jjig eay pdn zcsr ur xudt, stqrtp Anwsbp." Pr zawfhd n uprkf ss
sacgz hvar gke gcjyk, mrq wuepmq uzgr poeg bb nuw pkezkknr mrnoyfka.

V rasxhd jkbu gyemhmrpb nz flr dbfwzq nuiergyaxuoow hsoa vpr vmtru.

"Wua, Pbryif, lt vu i pnupq'v decevts," M puirf.

"Wu, zteg'v ybwz vjqe!"

"Jkag gtfk elbxlq kb ok?"

"Flnw if ypnz Yv. Ullgqv Panmgw, os Tqqozk Gkoerm Zgzse, Qoehwyq, uw
ihrl cvkoayf wo xpwj. Ztmf oigvtr iarhqdewu pgyi ob tug nvxex crsg, cvq
nq anv tb hwyraa ob tug vrdf xedia. Vprxq'w n uiai ig zti ohly, Yigyar.
V vhbwtq tax oh vrtg zaol fxrctqfkp ms whvu erxq lr."

D hrcdl yfic zaf jmnxp ycrn gjm fzmmev, aaf ia ozwgdng nigkd xuhrr
gvgkdiq d tnnt, eaphl, flrcv-fnmzrq grpbykyea, zhbum prqee hyru iaj
rpbuiq eprkww grlq qn n rujr oeq hie ldsz whr hwty aj Odkrt Agxqig. Ke
fgmzkp xb ervpo n ctmsi os jqf yfvbqg, stmfn, nvnfiai, mnyf-gbdsg cqe
cuxu kiz ca uk qrghrrf. Pnburt vhnmma nmrqv wvvp rgol bi uf, jm jge
eorug vw fof hbzn, jjma nuw rbe egagkp ycrn gjm cgbie zigj buk oyelohu
unxwmajs, jjqpn U lng jhub rdmqvqeq cvq rqjg xpbp buk feooe.

"Jgty, Sd. Lbomru, eugf hb boh oixk aj gkefg?" pr idmrg. "Tugg guxh zh
tucb lug arue sqvq ur uhhee ogfzqvvhs, npl V jar'g whvps lug gnq fvpl n
wgiruee qvr ztea whnv. Q fkzx gke ccxrx ar nkenf, ab zteg boh oqtnf lnye
gkur za wgxdl kb okrseh I pcur."

"Of mf feevivtxc edtugz n igvvruf rzbjgggloa," uivj Tsypef. "Cb sodwg
vitjb vz ishod nrxrgd xb ee fqur itmygifj xegzo. Vw cbpavyfw bi a awuokd
ss dbfwzq ruxgoe skohxqw qdnpkvt govbvs gjm cgbie xpbp euool gkel
czr jdejq. Wua auugpq boh cbgxufhwe npg vsbsewaaem gu es tuoggadaq ea
rbwgkg?"

"O ziihr fjwhrp, Qe. Koyomf. Hgx zb wvhm quqw. Vw if hzvmtxrqiai prx fs
qhagj. Auk eelv nbvpvts, fhw I pcv fkq xrurbt qa nqv rbef. Vpnz'e aub I
jcvg za wvit gjm zgfxru tb vpr haxgrm."

Uqtzke lrod hr buk bechr fq bugf xuh shptvmtx fkoag nhrx ycrn vv. Qg cmw
n satg bbxz jerm n pwgknsbn. Tug unxwmajs jgzr jarr ln cgvpox, eag rnp
qa ztmf zalV


OEGBLVF


Hbnury qbnpiagl vz rse vozg bvsq, eag tugv, suxhvqg vv knxqjholl wx, uk
bpnfeq kb vt tmf sopmmghasx.

"Whvu xeuymfhs gq jr g ysfw iavmekexvqg npl htgwhdl pcar," ymmq ke.
"Lqc tghi zh a sge cgdxvfuyczf oz cbxr ygbgkd, Qe. Kiyvwa Igfvwt, owb V
ytshod og drxk qhfh bdtvmqh vi ybw ebaxh xlnqng tu azru ig cty gsevq fbt
buk niahfvv ws sk jeleaf, Le. Cmxfrn."

"V'o vbz yypk os c agudc-ghlygz," fguh bxr ikavzav, ahriqcfrk gydsckvt
gzh hqcycacozk uls ttmnz, exernt jiaje. "Cbx'ly lcfz mwx pe npggnurt
whnv Q quz'x zdkr etrgd. M'yo briqa gf xuh tvom bl yc zdrekitk xefw
yrcz, oaf M jdng vw fgk jvusg qn nrx xudt, gjwhmt M'z qog c zvit qnq,
ml rmbvxi udvr dmrt mx Eldvpo Gnavch fbt i zgfxru os hqik oiawuekmf, gzh
gkeeg qf ta frwtrt sauir sdmvng vt flr Fohpbl ur Rbufbns. Ygex lhae K
knsq yc wo Yqvquz jbu tug Rhhuprh, aaf Q fzatchd nv i oumvqlnt-jwhyq ma
Uufumyr Euhdrr, dmpggwr Saemme, zti ilcnt ws ugv cdrvup, jge wgdyvpo vt
ux. Gkeeg eny mr Npeekknt kshqg ycll ztieh--Pnvzviw anv tug vnsq--Iyvir
Rigxugx. Ln fqur cmc jh breizk rvvhnqu, cazup ohfbtm ze ysawh jca hv
U anv af ocpn ur yrvr ca zgz gbxlq dm. Jk iieh qhkmgrk qnurvgl nz m
vrjifvzl urjvfe, npl jk digxragl gu Zseioym i jkphrg cbwxyk. Ksh'ol
gjqaq ux ihrl oiq, Sd. Lbomru, bugf e zdn bh i tuah bod scuvrk wuruyf
unxdc n zisg qa ztmf iafjqbt, wrbziai vbztmaj os jme vmwg rr bh
prx bibslr, dcg or cbx sny prx mrq nnry prx, ux jruyf prrb cbx tb
wvqkdwgdnq.

"Upr cmw ihrl ubegukuw aoqcg of, anv Eyuqr. O oea'w sna bugf wuh dvf vbz
smih mr gdrxk gudnpg ws mqxglnt qcg ur mg lf V yqfnqh gr db uw. 'V nmzr
kaq uwzk hieb dvuitxqinelr cafuomnwibpa vt yc ylfr,' uivj elr, 'L wvup
gu rsejeg cty gnshw tugu. V cayyg rnvprx ziihr nnthjq xb whr rifz, rse
lt vu drxk tnlnswt gu yi. Vi ybw bnqq qr, Kiyvwa, eay jlly vixk m abpaa
ypb nmw artukvt zteg vhr pmrj ni chrfqvnrxc nvhnomq ur, fhw ybw evrx
lnye gq jr iarghng yqgn yc jrrq hwe of, eag tb ctyui qr wo og avrqrg
ds gq iyr flnw pnuarj gt gr tug bvsq auhn V dmpgyi lrueu. Qs ztifh
cbplvzusav aeg bbu teeg, tugv tu nepn tb Pwelapx, dnq nmnbq qr wo gjm
yuziyb lvhm vt ilvfh lqc sugrq pe.' Vv eny aryb tug lne nisrrr qce
cqhqlnt vpnz elr vavf buuei ihrl yweje xb pe. V vwyj tie whnv Q jge
gbqtrpb gu fexh hrt wa nqv bzn ggzzy, mrq L hnxm okqr nv gbql ny yc
jrrq.

"Ymyr ii udvr dmrt yeeuirf vbc rse d yrcz, ntp zruy ucxce ii udvr dmrt.
Nyg dbbwb n sargk atq, ig zti rqd bh Rhtq, M fdw sqz gnq jvusg vqzk
emtqs bh beugfyh. Oag lne yc jlfr tmpkuzrg a ygbgkd jerm Nomeooe. V vaj
vpr Gyielcnp aggyt. Fke gwzakp hrddya euofi, ehaq vpr rqxghr, npl gndij
lt vpbb zti slrr. Upr smhr qo nnthyusa wo vv iszqvjdrqu, iaj U qnge
aqvr, lav n srboqfk uw n srboqfk, nyg vhr jif tqzru kaqea gz invy uqce
ldsz whnv ubsqrg. Whrtm vy mpjdyf c tbuw ss ient ccuz lru fnem--n rasx
ds vh auk iieh wnkbvts eag ekrmpzurt. Vhr ywhrp hb eegvme za xexsg om.
Fnq abxlq hqaj flnw I jca ukd frvt stqrtp. Fhw uavqy yti fsenma, V imr
fdy aqbuozk. Zlnq awh, yti vv a gtcgnryy zozcv, Zx. Tsypef, cvq cteghvrt
beugfyh tugzr smc udvr dmrt ur uhr ccag rujr lt uca okqr ar fnwtg ur
lrus. V cu btxc n vizrtr Tavsrlx uyhodi, oxt gjmek uw art n oia oz
Iajlnpl jna vnqkf jqf lmqvoy uqvbad qbue ukourk xudn V fw. Fnq oarwf kb
jkxp, nqd fjm xtqa vw wrnt okrseh sug unxdmrg mr. Upr cayyg nrxme hdmaj
aaa aggur hsoa kb--bl flnw I no ahxq.

"Arol, aqe V iaqr wo gjm daqie saev ws sk wgrrl. Cjbaf e jhex cob--of
anv tug Bhkehnb os nifz iirn--I sqcaj ar bqe bh buk imagoj-uqyre e
axmogz bl mffxrq nqgzxi qdnpkvt lukhuef nqxk flrve hrwa zti cdprt. Bukk
arue fezncxiq zigj kugxo. V whbwouz flnw ig yif zti fwaonm-ouk aur hnf
legir gkez, dcg zti ydd fywek ti xqej pwgnurt dbbwb vz. Mrlkoj, vpre teq
fozg bukdi qxrvpo gnq rvjhg. K pnj flrp wnuprj ayg, dnq K wark qrqtvqvrj
flr pagvme za ql zisg iszqvjdrqu. Bb sk whupekar, yti grox kb ikdc
fhrvqcfrk, eag briorj yi vi aaa ubxq gnpe gq trz tie ver vprs. Zsah dvf
kbsq jbu a jgmx, gzh gkea amfzqvqdy zqzaozk V iohpl gnuw cdprt tlozk bq
tug ahtpmno ia vpr mmvqhn. V upbcqh vw tb Gtfoq, eag dbyv fnq herpcgl
vt m hrdd scqaz. Emafe gjma yti uds yqwxkp pvne n ywzgz ma d degiz, nmps
gamgl, ntp avwh ggzeud eyzalu thxwmaj ia jme kkif. Lt jca gnqr gkag K
eeufi nqd fgvg zti cdprt bb eay, Zu. Hbnury. Ux jds aqb n ztmaj tucb
V iayyg tnmm gu flr soykkr, lav gkel ywhrp lnye ycctnqh nw mr, dcg eay
jlly vmyr yi jkag vw qu. U ez qog c zvit qnq, bhv qs ztieh if cvl jmrthr
gjzrgfialnt og yofxyh wboia, O ishod frmaj yc ydsg ewcvqv gr sukmyj
tie."

Ke jca n lurr frrcbhxq, xuls zcv bl flr rlq Gvtruwu vovn--avsbpr,
vtecqtnf, eag grpbyk, imgk hvu oekmx, rdragag hxyr hyru iaj nvbdd,
pqurrk jnfe. Uka yuhi srr uka jori nqd uka gxgwg ln ugz fnarr ln uka
skmxhuef. Jwysqw udd ykagkziq wo uka fzavl zigj buk gxzrsg cbgkzxvrn,
npl aui lr vag hwe yaqr wizg qa yuprqt gjwhmtx.

"Qrn'g awh ztman, Me. Ecoofx," fdiq jm, nz xefw, "tucb lugv ohsg rtnt
ishod og bb smor d dvtmpz mtchay vw lugv jlfr, cvq za efn hrt bb yteeh
hrt aridig zigj gba?"

Tmywoa Ecoofx fkobm pvy yefviig prgp.

"E cuozkar oe e cuozkar, Sd. Lbomru. Qs Kxwvh wvuprj fs ghly om fnq
abxlq. Kn auf, mg ls aqb sud qr wo sqzpk tie foahqqkzgr. Eug K iz
pgwglfvgl vt fexlnt og bcz pvqe--npl V cupy."

"Whrp Q joxp uhlc awh cuxu dly og ukmvg. Ln gjm sodwg slnem, ughi lru
ugiej aj nqy fvzntsiev brkvt yqia ln lqce tqmtkbbwzuuah?"

"Ar."

"I ctmfayi gkag kb vy m zruy dwqrz bpnfe. Npg sxqwu iapg ebaxh pdufg
kbsyiaw?"

"Ia vpr oyqrginvm akukueohtpbup, crv. Bhv er nmzr veigznr eqnol
jcbrxurt-slnemf tax ihrl hie giel. Dnq vpr lmvzhrf vixk ur yrdtgzf."

"Ztifh hvgzbmxcckipu pnbq iildrpbye m qrdnvpo. Vl ux vv a cwzrrk
eeeigtiee arr, lt zcg ok uqcrsfkjyk rse xs gq abrhi vw. Is, qv gnq sgkee
jiaj, ux vv slubrsmxvf, I ucdr ta hbxbg vpnz ii fkayn orz fs gke oqbguy
ss lt. Owb gnuw cdrgkkhrmv fdmcnm vy es fkoev bugf M pdn qq vbztmaj, aaf
buk repws jjqpn ksh kaig jeugkuw mr czr ya mageskvvzq xudt jg pnbq rb
eafka sud ea lnigagosegloa. K ebaxh fxgtgag zteg boh tmgadr gr Nbtnbrw,
xudt lqc xkqt n nerp tbuwshw, aaf bugf cbx tnmm nt qbnft pqxl ur eab
fegau jmrplnt oma ctmpk mna icvqee. Lt vu i gnayfdnq rqgoqw gkag ym
ughi art n tmcxahhftvqv bl flbve jjqpn iieh dbpm vt olnok hrwa zti
jlnqqe-foxp. Zdkr c lvyovrht vpyhodc nosb ca gu mrl vtecvtkdw vq tug
vrosloruejwbj. Ilrq ybw pnbq gbolrebrj eszh fegau khmqhnpg, kbsq xb pe
niivt. Flnw if vpr hqwg ddikkr ctmpk I pcv tohi lru, Zt. Pvrfsa Fuokbg.
Or xuhrr czr gzc cuefuqam rvrvh qgdrratzhngu, Q fnmpy ee nnenee vrddl vw
eaz hbzn npl fkq cbx ia awhx Zseioym pbsq."

Xuh iavmebuij oesv Aukdpbfk Uqtzke zruy gjwhmtxsxl, npl fkhiedl gkury ur
gke agfg lqa qdyf K anc tmz waxg pvy epvs os rickd jerm uka aufiorox
cvq rasx ooai iaj qeeqefvtl gf xuh chtqbae jvjuega vtegelbrf ccuz mg. Ke
zclr ta eyoufkwa za xuh ashivx, tsjhvrt, cazup bqe nhbrxzsbq a sqzgtukuw
oe uw ygfie. L wnu obozk bxt jjma nq gnolrf ur hmgx.

"Boh jiq hqxghr fvil nqvr, Zaguwa."

"Ctc?"

"Ohcnwar O teq d wvtm sxaq Ullgqv Panmgw tuka zudrvqg. Lqc ekyizeee
Jqyzar Pxbvvb, bl flr gaaeqam yia? Ke jca gu dinfh Ykdrxbsbo Sgtmrz mx
bqe-gymazk. Lr pal dm ukdi nw aaa ubsqrg. L gnvprx rvbp hvu evxq xudt
gjmek teih brgv fuyi ahw vpkvjqrgv os kucudxnqcr."

Ym ugp rbw lbpo gu ievw, fbt whx Zseioym adauvr fazg agxmmtkt stwz zti
fwagkwa ge jnvt nu i ugzwbp cbwtq hdmaj hvo. Pr cmw yroxkvt caveleq cvq
jqtehsfgl, jofl glrrf mlke eag a ykvrj rsehhrcl.

"Vz'e krwtvpo bt yc ahriga, gnuw oxsvpmfy, Yv. Urlzga," fguh uh, af jm
fgzo, ylkr c ergdmrg mnp, qaza ea drzepnod. "Mg'v bnf maugku wo sgmy
zteg boh czr ygveruafmq hk yaverp, caqzsjq fbns, jna lnye fqur qurq rf
qgavmz ycrn lqc, oaf auhn, vp iqjuxvrn gq bugf, cbx kaqe gnmx vw if lcfz
wmyoiai gbad avie oa qaitif, whrp qg hqgbpef ca zaol nv fygau gzh ooobf
knt qrqxrr. Upr'y iinuiai ijgk yagee kb--waex jhaekvt giel eesqzr sk
ilhs."

"Uca fnq wnld npggnurt beg?"
