--------
title: Lab 7: Mancala Part One
--------

In the next three labs you will build a computer version of the classic board game Mancala.
The first half of the lab sequence will involve 
developing a two-player version of the game where two people can play the game against each
other.  The second half of the sequence will have you developing a computer player that you
can play Mancala against.

For an overview of the game, you can see the [wikipedia page](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mancala), or you can click on "How to Play" (and play part of a game to get a feel for it) [here](http://www.coolmath-games.com/0-mancala/).

There are many different version of Mancala; we will develop one of the simpler versions.  The board is as usual: there are 6 pits on either side of the board, and at the ends of the board are the players' stores.  The game proceeds in a counterclockwise fashion, so a player's store is on the right side of that player's side of the board.

## Gameplay

The legal moves for a player consist of choosing one of the pits that has stones in it, on their side of the board.  The stones are then removed from that pit, and placed one-by-one in the pits following that pit, in counterclockwise order.  The player does place stones in her own store, and in her opponent's pits, but _not_ in her opponent's store.

Players alternate turns, with one exception.  When a player is placing stones, if the last stone he places is in his own store, that player goes again.

## Endgame

The game is over when, after a player moves, all of his pits are empty.  A player's score is the sum of the number of stones in his store and the number of stones on his side of the board.

## First Task: Game Logic

To start everyone off with a common base, we've provided you with the main 
data structure used to represent the state of a game of Mancala.  
In order to represent the _state_ of the Mancala game before of after a player's turn,
we must keep track of: 
- how many stones are in each pit
- how many stones are in each player's store
- which player's turn it is

You should read through [MancalaBoard.hs](../fls/MancalaBoard.hs) to see what data structures we provide and which functions we provide to access them. Many functions have been left unimplemented: it is your job in this lab to implement those.

__NOTE__: you will only receive credit for functions you have tested.  This means you must have some test for each function which verifies
that for a hardcoded input of your choosing the function gives the correct output.

```haskell
testFunct :: Bool
```

__DO__: Implement all the missing functions (marked `TODO`) in `MancalaBoard.hs`.

Improve 
the _show_ function for a MancalaBoard so that it shows the
board in a way that can be more easily understood.  At the very least you
should split the board up into the two players' sides (instead of its
current representation as one long list), but if you want to get fancy
you can try to add some ASCII art (using `-`'s, `/`'s, `\`'s, `|`'s, etc.) to
give a visual representation of the board.
